
# W3-1: Exercises for Introduction to Data Warehousing
Use `\dt` to show tables,  and don't forget to terminate all your SQL  queries with a `;` .Use `f` to page through results and q  to quit the pager.

`dt+` for more information.

The tables are `counties` and `population` in this lab.
```SQL
CREATE TABLE counties   (county_id int,
			 region integer CHECK (0 < region) CHECK (region < 5),
			 division integer CHECK (0 < division) CHECK (division < 10),
			 state varchar, 
			 county varchar, 
			 PRIMARY KEY (county_id));

CREATE TABLE population (county_id int REFERENCES counties (county_id),
			 year smallint CHECK (2009 < year) CHECK (year < 2017), 
			 eoy_population int CHECK (eoy_population >= 0), 
			 births integer CHECK (births >= 0), 
			 deaths integer CHECK (deaths >= 0), 
			 international_migration integer, 
			 domestic_migration integer, 
			 residual int,
			 PRIMARY KEY (county_id, year));
```

1. Basic Investigation
    - a) If you count every dimension as an attribute, then there are 8 dimensions in population. But from a data warehouse point of view, every attribute is a measure except for county_id, which seems to serve as a key. So, there is one dimension?
        - Fix: WRONG. The year counts as a dimension. So there are two dimensions, county and year.
    - b) 21987 from `SELECT COUNT(*) FROM population;`
        - Correct
    - c) Well, I'm not sure what residuals are. You could get set-grouping concept hierarchies by discretizing eoy_population, births, and deaths, etc, either by taking intervals of the numeric value or taking the ages. Not from this dataset, though. The years for instance, you could separate into decades. You can't exactly drill down on the years into, say, months, since this data is all we have, right?
        - FIX: By observing the `counties` table, you observe county, state, division, region. These are some fairly obvious answers. 
    - d) This is a star schema since there appears to be one fact table, population, and one dimension table, counties. 
        - Correct
    - e) Population data and counties data will help governments plan ahead for social spending, how they should determine migration policies, analyse how the demographic changes will affect the economy (including for each specific county). They can detect abnormalities in population and try to dissect the cause for it. They can use this data to perform regression and predict future population growth. The population data can help politicians and businesses tailor towards certain age-groups as is most optimal for their business purpose.
        - Correct 
2. Basic Querying
    - a) What was the total net migration (domestic + international) for Mecklenburg County, North Carolina in 2013?
        -county_id is 1949: `SELECT * FROM counties WHERE state='North Carolina' AND county='Mecklenburg County';`
        - The row is: `SELECT international_migration +  domestic_migration FROM population WHERE county_id=1949 AND year=2013;`
        - The sum is: `SELECT (international_migration +  domestic_migration) as net_migration FROM population WHERE county_id=1949 AND year=2013;`
            - Or: `SELECT year, (SUM(international_migration) +  SUM(domestic_migration)) as net_migration FROM population WHERE county_id=1949 AND year=2013 GROUP BY year;`
        - Answer: 13907
        - Correct

    - b) What was the net natural population change (births - deaths) for the state of Oklahoma in 2015?
        - `SELECT (SUM(births)-SUM(deaths)) as net_nat_change FROM population p JOIN counties c ON p.county_id=c.county_id WHERE state='Oklahoma' AND year=2015;`
        - Answer: 14626
        - Correct

    - c)  What was the total population change per division in each year? 
        - `SELECT division, year, (SUM(births) - SUM(deaths) + SUM(domestic_migration) + SUM(international_migration)) as population_change FROM population p JOIN counties c ON p.county_id=c.county_id GROUP BY (division, year) ORDER BY division, year;`
        - Correct. 

Takeaways: Use `NATURAL JOIN`, dumbass!

3. Disconnect
