# 5. Practical Exercise: Association Mining
URLS:
  * Book: https://wattlecourses.anu.edu.au/mod/book/view.php?id=3353513&chapterid=535827
  * [x] Association Mining Prac: Reference - https://wattlecourses.anu.edu.au/mod/page/view.php?id=3353534
  * [x] Association Mining Prac: Basics (exercises) - https://wattlecourses.anu.edu.au/mod/page/view.php?id=3353535
  * Solutions - https://wattlecourses.anu.edu.au/mod/page/view.php?id=3353536


Using Rattle and the provided Association Mining Practical: Reference, use the Movies dataset to answer the following questions.

Important! You have to disable partitioning on Rattle! Sneaky bastard.

# Understanding the data:

## (a) How are transactions represented in this data set?
They are denoted by a transaction id which is basket value. 

## (b) How many transactions does the data set contain?
10 transactions (by unique basket values, `n_distinct(ds$basket)`)


# Frequency plot:

## (c) What does rattle list on the x-axis of a frequency plot?
For the Association Rule's Frequency plot, it shows relative item frequency on the x-axis.

(Correct.)


## (d) Which items have equal frequency in the dataset? What are their relative frequencies?
The items with equal frequency (and relative frequencies) in the dataset are:

LOTR2, HP1, Green Mile (rf = 0.2). Patriot and Gladiator at rf = 0.5. LOTR, HP2, Braveheart at rf = 0.1. 


## (e) Looking at the default graph, which setting should be changed to show only the three most frequent items? What value should this setting be changed to?

At minimum, you'd need to change the setting support > 0.2. For example, support = 0.3

# Association rules:

## (f) Using rattle’s default settings. How many association rules are generated for this data set? How are these rules sorted?
44 rules are generated by default, with min_sup and min_conf both 0.1. They're ordered by support. 

Somehow, I'm wrong. Fun!

## (g) How does Rattle visualise association rules? What do the arrows mean?
I assume you mean arrows in the Graph of Associations plot. The arrows point to what support/lifts that attribute is associated with, but pointing an arrow towards or away from an attribute, indicating the sense that it is the antecedent or it is the consequent of such a rule. 

(Surprisingly, correct.)

## ( h ) What value of Min Length will generate association rules with an empty left-hand side? What is the meaning of these rules?
I suppose three, but I have no idea. 

No. Do `table(ds$basket)`

We see that transaction 1 has 5 items, the maximum in a transaction. So set length to 6, since now, we certainly cannot have any bundle with 6 items associated. 

Fix: The answer says something else. Do min_length = 1, then you cannot have another item associated on the LHS to be involved in the rule. 
BUT TECHNICALLY I WAS CORRECT, BECAUSE RATTLE STILL GENERATES RULES ON length = 1!

## (i) What values would you set to get rules that appear in at least a quarter of all transactions?
Set 0 for any minimum support or confidence and you will certainly get all the rules. 

Fix: Logically, do support = 0.25. Then out of all the transactions in the dataset, the interesting rule must have been present in at least a quarter. 

Fix 2: Confidence = 0 for bonus points. 

## (j) Can you generate a set of interesting/useful (?) set of rules? What are the settings used to produce this set of rules?
Sup = 0.25, conf = 0.5. 

Seems like Patriot and Gladiator are cloooosely associated. 

Fix: Have to provide justification for your choices.

Support = 0.25 mandates that the rule should be frequent in the dataset. Confidence tells us that the rule is common within the transactions involving the antecedent. 